hi doing some fun ladies I like that
that's weird
that was my bra strap in case any of you
betta files or one is gonna come here
trouble
yes you may well feel that the word
anisia
does not belong in the same sentence as
the word philosophy but sitting that
prejudice aside in this video we're
gonna talk philosophically about an
essay on and we're gonna use the
anecdotes from the life of an in here on
the internet to talk about ethical
philosophy a little bit I'm gonna start
with a shadow to another youtuber ask
yourself ask yourself CEO of the world
is that he says there's a spectrum of
values and at one end of the spectrum
the consequences of our actions are so
high that we think about ethics in terms
of consequentialism and then as moved
towards the opposite end of the spectrum
we think in terms of de ontology rules
based ethics what you ought and ought
not to do regardless of the consequences
so he may say if you're in a
hypothetical scenario where you could
murder one person in order to save the
lives of 1 million people then in that
situation you're thinking in terms of
consequentialist ethics and ultimately a
kind of utilitarian ethics you think
well the value of this one person's life
seems trivial compared to the 1 million
people's lives you can say now I value
the illustrations he brings to our
discussions of philosophy but I don't
really feel that that is the spectrum
these things lie along my suspicion is
that the spectrum is at the one end the
hypothetical and abstract and at the
other the real the everyday and the
concrete so yes hypothetically in the
abstract we could talk about a science
fiction scenario where somebody can find
the cure for a terrible disease but they
have to just torture one person to death
in a horrible scientific experiment in a
laboratory in order to produce this cure
that will then instantly cure a million
people who otherwise will instantly die
but in the real world that's never the
kind of scenario we deal
we deal with a much more complex
situation in which the outcome of an
experiment is by definition unknown some
people think this is gonna find a cure
some people think the experiment is not
going to be that valuable some people
think the results of this experiment or
going to be rendered moot and obsolete
by a different research team in Sweden
who's working on a different approach to
the same disease and the reality is yeah
a million people have this disease but
you know when you get into the
nitty-gritty of any real-world problem
any real-world scenario one crucial
difference that comes up again again is
knowing the consequences of your actions
knowing the outcomes those hypothetical
scenarios where consequentialism seems
to make sense
where utilitarian approaches to ethics
seem to make sense they all rely on us
being able to know the consequences the
outcomes of our decisions of our actions
and that's exactly what we can't know
not even in our most intimate
relationships with our boyfriends or
girlfriends on this spectrum let's say
one person starts off with the
principled a ontological principle that
it's completely immoral for a thirty
year old man to be in a sexual
relationship with a 19 year old girl
sorry I should take gender out of it any
combination of genders that it's also
immoral for a 30 year old woman to be in
a relationship with a 19 year old male
either which way someone begins with
that as a general principle rule and
then you have a counter-argument
hypothetically you say well what if the
19 year old partner in this age gap
relationship what if the 19 year old
became a porn star at age 18 and they
are in fact so sexual experience they've
now slept with
over 100 people that it seems reasonable
for that 30 year old to assume that for
them to sleep with just one more person
he's not going to have any great impact
so the question here is being posed in
terms of the consequences the harm done
so the point being here implicitly you
might have one 19 year old who's very
emotionally susceptible very weak very
tender very easily upset very easily
hurt very inexperienced so on and so
forth and then you might have another 19
year old who is far more experienced and
self-confident and robust and where it
seems reasonable to assume that this
love affair is not going to
significantly change their lives will
reshape how they feel or have these
kinds of profound when you're talking
about it hypothetically like the science
fiction novel in which they just have to
kill one person to save the lives of 1
million it's easy to set those things
that and when you talk about it in real
life at the other end of the spectrum
the end of the spectrum when we're
dealing with day ontology the real
difference for me is precisely that were
in a situation of not knowing you don't
know these outcomes you you don't know
the outcomes if the government decides
to torture someone to try to find out
secret information do they really know
it are they gonna give you false
information those forms they're all
these problems running what's unknowable
with the use of torture all right so all
these problems that are unknowable with
the medical medical science experiment
finding a cure so and so forth but even
if you're dating a 19 year old veteran
of the porn industry you may imagine
that their prior experience makes them
immune to falling in love and you may be
wrong and you know what switch it around
look at it from the 19 year olds
perspective maybe the 19 year old goes
into this relationship with a 30 year
old again either gender younger male
older female
vice-versa maybe the nineteen-year-old
goes into the older person they say this
man or this woman is over 30 lots of
experiences in life this older person
isn't gonna fall in love with me they're
not gonna go crazy they're not gonna
become my stalker
this isn't gonna have any kind of
lasting or profound impact to them and
you don't know that that 19 year old
might be thinking this older partner
they must just be immune to falling in
love they must be immune to all the
madness that can come you know from the
human heart right and you don't know we
enter into even the most intimate
relationships in our lives as a sort of
experiment and we find out who the other
person is through the experiment of
falling in love with them and they have
fun with us and the scariest part of all
is they may find out who they really are
through the process of falling in love
with us we may find out some things
about who we really are through the
process of falling in love with that
okay the relationship can reveal not
just who that person is to us but who we
are to our selves so the role of the
unknown brings us back again and again
to a more de ontological approach to
ethics a more rule-based set of ethics
because the rules can remain true they
can remain useful even in a situation
where what we struggle with is not even
so much our own morality or immorality
is not even so much our own import
a couple desires it may be that part of
what we're struggling with is that we
can't know the consequences of our
actions
we can't know how much we're gonna hurt
someone else we can't know how much
we're gonna destroy their life even if
we go into the relationship with the
best intentions possible many of the
critics of initia and his sex life or
saying things that are untrue
Jacqueline Glenn was stating it as if
it's a proven fact that an SCN has
broken the law there is no law he's
broken in his current relationship
Fiasco so I don't think he's gonna take
her to court for saying that but it's
not true if anything in his see nashoni
as a fetish for obeying the letter of
the law which is a little bit disturbing
on many other levels but in all of his
relationships what an isiand refuses to
do is take responsibility for the
consequences of his actions for the
other person and it's very obvious in
this case even if he had the best of
intentions and nobody thinks he had the
best intentions but even if he had the
best of intentions he's at a devastating
impact on this young woman's life
I think she's now 19 at the beginning of
this story she was 16 it's obviously
changed her life forever this really
bizarre triangular relationship she was
in over over so many years over a
crucial time her life and of course a
responsible person could have could have
seen that coming right in most of our
relationships we cannot see the
consequences I got married to a fully
grown woman with a PhD from Cambridge
University and the truth is I didn't
really know who I was falling in love
with I didn't know who I was getting
married to I figured out who she really
was over a period of several years
and you know what the nicest thing the
most charitable thing I can say for her
is probably in some ways
at the start of that relationship she
herself didn't really know who she was
maybe she was concealing some things
from me intentionally even if we presume
that's not true you know people may not
have it in them to disclose who they are
they may not know what makes them weak
or vulnerable what their strengths and
weaknesses are put it that way and they
also won't know what the impact will be
for you emotionally or even in terms of
your job your career your level all
kinds of other more palpable effects
also they don't know the way in which
their efforts to love you to be kind to
you
to take care of you they don't know the
extent to which that may end up being
abusive for you may end up being
destructive and I think that's the
nicest thing towards an issue in at
least anyone this month has ever said
[Music]